\	
1. What is the difference between shift and unshift?

shift() :
. removes the first element.
. returns the element that was removed.
 
unshift() :
. adds one or more elements to the start.
. returns the new length of the array after the addition

2. What is the difference between splice and slice?		

splice():  Modify the original array (add, remove, replace elements).

slice() :Create a new array by copying a portion of the original array.


2 . What is the event loop in JavaScript? 
	
The event loop in JavaScript is a fundamental concept for managing asynchronous operations and handling events in a non-blocking manner. 
It allows JavaScript to execute code, handle events, and perform tasks in an efficient and responsive way, despite the single-threaded nature of the language.

3. What is the difference between microtask and macrotask in JavaScript?
Microtasks: 	
1. Small, immediate tasks scheduled by promises or other APIs.
2. Executed immediately after the current script and before the next macrotask.
3.Microtasks run to completion before moving on to the next macrotask.
4.Microtask queue (or job queue)	

Macrotasks:
1. Larger tasks scheduled by APIs like setTimeout, setInterval, and I/O operations.
2. Executed after all microtasks have been processed.
3.Macrotasks are executed one at a time after all microtasks are processed. 
4.Macrotask queue (or task queue)


4. What is a promise and why do we use it?

Promises are used in JavaScript to handle asynchronous operations more effectively. 
They provide a cleaner and more manageable way to deal with tasks that take time to complete, such as fetching data from a server.
 By using promises, you can write asynchronous code that is easier to read, maintain, and debug, avoiding complex nesated callbacks.


5. What is prototype inheritance?

Prototype inheritance is a fundamental feature in JavaScript that allows objects to inherit properties and methods from other objects. 
This mechanism is based on the concept of prototypes, enabling an object to access the properties and methods of another object, which is its prototype.

6. What is the difference between arrow functions and normal functions?	
Arrow :
 i.  Arrow Functions Do not have their own this context.
ii .Arrow Functions Cannot be used as constructors. They cannot be called with the new keyword.
iii. Arrow Functions: Do not have their own arguments object. 
iv. Arrow Functions: Cannot be used with the super keyword.


Normal : 
i. Normal Functions: Have their own this context, 
ii. Normal Functions: Can be used as constructors with the new keyword.
iii . Normal Functions: Have their own arguments object,
iv. Normal Functions: Can be used with the super keyword in c
lass methods to call methods on a superclass.


7. What is JSON.stringify?

JSON.stringify is a method in JavaScript used to convert a JavaScript object or value into a JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) string. 
This method is particularly useful for serializing data so it can be easily stored, transmitted, or manipulated as a string format.

8.What is the virtual DOM?

The virtual DOM is a concept used in modern web frameworks, such as React, to optimize and manage the process of updating the user interface efficiently. 
The virtual DOM is a lightweight, in-memory representation of the actual DOM (Document Object Model). 
It serves as an intermediary between the application's state and the real DOM.

9. What is the difference between synchronous and asynchronous programming in JavaScript?

Synchronous Programming:
In synchronous programming, code is executed line by line, one statement at a time. 
Each operation must complete before the next one begins

Asynchronous Programming:
Asynchronous programming allows code to be executed in a non-blocking manner. 
Tasks that take time can run in the background, allowing other code to execute while waiting for those tasks to complete.

10. How does JavaScript handle closures and what are their use cases?
JavaScript handles closures by allowing functions to retain access to variables from their outer scope even after the outer function has finished executing.
 A closure is created when a function is defined inside another function, giving the inner function access to the outer function's variables.

Use Cases:
i.Data Encapsulation
ii.Factory Functions 
iii.Function Currying
iv.Event Handlers


11.What is the role of promises in asynchronous JavaScript?

Promises in JavaScript represent the outcome of an asynchronous operation and provide a structured way to handle results and errors.
 They allow you to attach callbacks for success (.then()) and failure (.catch()), making it easier to manage sequential and conditional operations.
 Promises help avoid callback hell by enabling chaining of asynchronous tasks and improving code readability and maintainability. 


12.How does async/await simplify asynchronous code in JavaScript?

async/await simplifies asynchronous code in JavaScript by allowing you to write asynchronous operations in a synchronous-like manner.
 The async keyword is used to declare a function that returns a promise, while the await keyword pauses the execution of the async function until the promise is resolved.
 This approach eliminates the need for chaining .then() and .catch() methods, making the code more readable and easier to understand. 

13. What are modules in JavaScript and how do they differ from namespaces?
In JavaScript, modules and namespaces are both mechanisms for organizing and managing code, but they serve different purposes 
Module :

i.Modules are a way to encapsulate code into reusable units. They allow you to export functions, objects, or values from one file and import them into another.

ii.Syntax: JavaScript modules use import and export statements.


NameSpace:
i. Namespaces are a way to group related code together to avoid naming conflicts and organize code within a single global context.
ii. Syntax: Namespaces are typically created using objects to group related functions and variables.


14. difference between map,reduce and filter?

map: Transforms each element in an array; returns a new array.
reduce: Reduces an array to a single value; returns that value.
filter: Selects elements that pass a condition; returns a new array.

15. Is javascript a statically typed or a dynamically typed language?

JavaScript is a dynamically typed language. In a dynamically typed language, the type of a variable is checked during run-time 

16.Explain passed by value and passed by reference.
Pass by Value: Works with primitives. Changes in the function do not affect the original variable.
Pass by Reference: Works with objects. Changes in the function affect the original object.

17. What is the difference between exec () and test () methods in javascript?

test () and exec () are RegExp expression methods used in javascript. 
We'll use exec () to search a string for a specific pattern, and if it finds it, it'll return the pattern directly; else, it'll return an 'empty' result.
use a test () to find a string for a specific pattern. It will return the Boolean value 'true' on finding the given text otherwise, it will return 'false'.

18. 25. What is memoization?
Memoization is a form of caching where the return value of a function is cached based on its parameters. 
If the parameter of that function is not changed, then  cached version of the function is returned.

19.  What is recursion in a programming language?
Recursion is a technique to iterate over an operation by having a function call itself repeatedly until it arrives at a result.
j many different methods can you make an object?
In JavaScript, there are several ways to declare or construct an object.

Object.
using Class.
create Method.
Object Literals.
using Function.
Object Constructor

21.  What is Object Destructuring?
Object destructuring is a new way to extract elements from an object or an array.


22. 14. What is a Temporal Dead Zone?
Temporal Dead Zone is a behaviour that occurs with variables declared using let and const keywords. 
It is a behaviour where we try to access a variable before it is initialized. 

23. What are the primitive data types in JavaScript?
Boolean
Undefined
Null
Number
String


24. catchError in javascript?
In JavaScript, you can catch errors using try...catch blocks.
 The code inside the try block is executed, and if any error occurs, the catch block handles it.

25. Explain event delegation in JavaScript.

Event delegation is a technique in JavaScript where a single event listener is added to a parent element instead of adding multiple listeners to individual child elements. 
When an event occurs on a child element, it bubbles up to the parent, which handles the event.

26. Shallow Copy:
Copies only the top-level properties of an object. 
If the object contains nested objects, only references to those objects are copied.

27 Deep Copy:
 Creates an entirely new copy of an object, including all nested objects, so no references to the original remain.


28.call(),apply(),bind()
call():
Calls a function with a given this value and arguments passed individually.
apply():
 Similar to call(), but takes arguments as an array or array-like object.
bind():
Returns a new function with a permanently bound this value and optional pre-set arguments. It does not invoke the function immediately.

29.How promises does it differ from a callback?
Difference: Promises avoid callback hell, making chaining easier via .then() and handling errors with .catch().

30.What are generators in JavaScript?
Generators are functions that can be paused and resumed using the yield keyword. They allow you to control the flow of function execution.

31.What is the difference between function declaration and function expression?
Function Declaration: Defined with the function keyword and hoisted to the top, meaning it can be used before it's declared.
Function Expression: Assigned to a variable and not hoisted. It can’t be used before its declared.
// Function declaration
function greet() { console.log("Hello"); }

// Function expression
const greet = function() { console.log("Hello"); };


32. What is Object.create() in JavaScript?
Object.create() is used to create a new object with a specified prototype object and optional properties.

33. What is the module pattern in JavaScript?
The module pattern is used to encapsulate private and public variables and methods, typically using an immediately invoked function expression (IIFE).

34. What are service workers in JavaScript?
Service workers are scripts that run in the background, separate from the main browser thread.
 They enable features like push notifications and background sync, and can intercept and cache network requests to enable offline functionality.

35. What is the difference between Object.freeze() and Object.seal()?
Object.freeze(): Makes an object immutable. Properties cannot be added, modified, or deleted.
Object.seal(): Prevents adding or deleting properties, but existing properties can still be modified.

36.What is throttling and debouncing in JavaScript?
Throttling: Ensures a function is called at most once every X milliseconds, useful for actions like window resizing or scrolling.
Debouncing: Ensures a function is called only after a certain period of inactivity, useful for search bars.

37.What is the Symbol type in JavaScript?
Symbols are a unique and immutable primitive data type, often used to create object keys that are guaranteed to be unique.

38. What is the difference between event bubbling and event capturing?
Event Bubbling: The event is first captured and handled by the innermost element, then propagated to outer elements.
Event Capturing: The event is captured from the outermost element and propagated to the innermost element (use capture: true in event listeners).


