
1) What is RxJS? / What do you understand by RxJS?
RxJS is an stand for Reactive Extension for Javascript. 
it is a JavaScript library that uses observables to work with reactive programming and deals with asynchronous data calls, callbacks and event-based programs.
RxJS has introduced the concept of "reactive programming" to the web. 
It implements a reactive extension for TypeScript and JavaScript.

2. What is Reactive Programming?
Reactive programming is a declarative programming paradigm which deals with asynchronous data streams. 
Glenn Wadden first developed reactive programming in 1986 as a programming language in the Supervisory Control.
Reactive programming facilitates us to create data streams of anything, not just from click and hover events.
	

3. What are the most outstanding features of RxJS?

i. Observer
The Observer is an object with next(), error(), and complete() methods, which are called when we have to interact with the observable, 
example: button click, Http request, etc. 

ii.Observable
iii.Subscription
The role of subscription comes in the scene when the observable is created. To execute the observable, we need to subscribe to it. 
It can also be used to cancel the execution.
iv.Operators:An operator is a pure function that takes observable input and emits the result in the output form. Input and output both are observable.
v. Subject
vi.Schedulers :
A scheduler controls the execution when the subscription has to start and be notified.

4. What is Redux?
	
Redux is an open-source JavaScript library which is used to manage the application state. 
It is most commonly used with libraries such as React, Angular, or RxJS for building user interfaces.
 Redux is inspired by Facebook's Flux architecture and also very similar to it. It was created by Dan Abramov and Andrew Clark.

5. What do you understand by RxJS Stream?

stream is a sequence of data elements made available over time. 
A stream can as items on a conveyor belt being processed one at a time rather than in large batches. 
It is called stream because it acts as a data that is continuous and not really having an end, unless you explicitly define an end.

6. What do you understand by the Reactive Manifesto document?
A document was introduced to define the core principles of reactive programming. 
That document is known as the Reactive Manifesto. 
The Reactive Manifesto document was first released in 2013 by a group of developers led by a man called Jonas Boner.
 The Reactive Manifesto underpins the principles of reactive programming.	

7.Is there any similarity between Redux and RxJS?

redux:
i.Redux is a tool used to manage state throughout the application. It is usually used as architecture for UI.	
ii.Redux uses the Reactive paradigm little bit because the Store is reactive. The Store observes actions from a distance, and changes itself.

rxjs:
i.RxJS is a reactive programming library. It is usually used as a tool to accomplish asynchronous tasks in JavaScript. 
ii.RxJS also uses the Reactive paradigm, but instead of being architecture, it gives you basic building blocks, Observables.

8.What is the difference between BehaviorSubject and Observable in RxJS?

observable:
i.In RxJS, observable is stateless.	
ii.Observable creates copy of data.	
iii.Observable is unidirectional in nature.	

BehaviourSubject:
i.In RxJS, BehaviourSubject is stateful.
ii.BehaviourSubject shares data.
iii.BehaviourSubject is bidirectional in nature.

9. What do you understand by the term Non-Blocking in RxJS?
In RxJS, non-blocking refers to the fact that asynchronous operations don't block the execution of other code.
 When an observable emits values, without waiting for the current task to complete. 
This allows other tasks or operations run in parallel.

10. What do you understand by the Actor Model in RxJS?
An Actor model specifies that your concurrency primitives are actors.
It can send messages to any actors they know about.
It can receive a message and decide what to do next depending on the content of the message.

11.replay subject in rxjs?
In RxJS, a ReplaySubject is a variant of Subject that replays a specified number of past values to new subscribers.
 It stores the last emitted values in a buffer and sends them to any new subscribers, ensuring they catch up with the history of emitted values. 

12. What is Back-Pressure in Reactive Programming? 
Back-pressure in reactive programming refers to the mechanism of controlling data flow between a producer (source) and a consumer (subscriber) to prevent overwhelming the consumer with data. 
When the producer emits data faster than the consumer back-pressure helps manage the rate, system remains stable and avoids memory overload.

In RxJS, back-pressure strategies include:
Buffering: Temporarily storing data until the consumer can process it.
Dropping: Skipping excess data when the consumer is overwhelmed.
Throttling/Debouncing: Slowing down the emission rate.

13. What do you understand by to be Resilient for a Reactive System?
Resilient for a Reactive System means the system will stay responsive if it gets any chance of failure. 
Any system that is not resilient will be unresponsive after a failure.
Resilience is achieved by using replication, containment, isolation and delegation.	
